This is a painting program. The player can cycle between paintbrush shapes, as well as increase and decrease size of the brush.
A minimum and maximum size will be set dependant on smallest recognizable drawing of each shape.
These are the shapes:
  square/rectangle
  triangle 
  circle
  hexagon
I'll use asesprite to test draw various sizes for each of these.
The player can choose between a solid and a gradient, as well as select color with RGB sliders ranging 0-31 each 
In color selection mode, there is given a selection of gradients based upon the chosen RGB value
In shape selection mode, there are multiple gradient patterns per shape.
Meaning, higher speed, that color cycles through it's gradient range faster.


Step 1:
  set up state handling for following tasks:
    while drawing:
      hold A + directions, draw
      hold B + directions, erase
      hold RT + A, draw with gradient?
      hold LT + RT + A + B, clear screen
      on pressing start, pause and enter RGB color selection mode
    while paused:
      in RGB color selection mode:
        left|right cyle between RGB color value selector bars
        up|down increase/decrease value of current RGB selector bar
        (this will have a demo box showing current color, along with it's gradient variant)
      on pressing Right Trigger enter shape selection mode 
      on pressing Left Trigger enter color selection mode  

Step 2:
  Set starting parameters for drawing and implement basic drawing and erasing with a 16x16 square (use a pattern?)
Step 3:
  implement color slider selectors.
Step 4:
  implement shape selection (no changeable sizes just yet)
Step 5:
  implement 3-5 gradiant variations in color selection
  implement 3-5 gradient patterns in shape selection
Step 6:
  implement shape size parameters (min/max depends on shape?)
Step 7:
  implement symmetry modes:
    Quadrant symmetry:
      creates symmetries to current drawing in each quadrant
    Triangle symmetries:
      only when drawing triangles, there is a symmetry cycle, changing shape variant to draw different edges/faces
Step 8:
  implement screen clear function and activate it with input combo LT+RT+L+R

