
This guide focuses on how and why to introduce physics into your ECS system, starting with standard arithmetic for simplicity and then exploring the benefits and application of fixed-point math.
Overview of Physics in Games

Physics in games simulates natural movement and interactions, such as gravity, acceleration, collisions, and forces. The goal is to create believable and responsive interactions without unnecessary complexity.
Standard Arithmetic: Step-by-Step Physics

We’ll begin with integer-based calculations, which are simpler to implement and sufficient for basic physics.
1. Components for Physics

Why: Physics relies on data like position, velocity, and acceleration. These are stored as components in your ECS.

    Position: Where the entity is located.
    Velocity: How fast and in what direction the entity is moving.
    Acceleration: The rate of change of velocity over time.

2. Gravity

Why: Gravity pulls entities downward, simulating real-world physics.

    Define a constant value for gravity.
    Apply gravity to the vertical velocity (vy) of all entities affected by physics.

3. Movement

Why: Position updates are based on velocity, which makes entities move over time.

    Update an entity’s position by adding its velocity to the current position.

4. Acceleration

Why: Forces like jumping or wind can change an entity’s velocity over time.

    Apply acceleration to velocity every frame.
    Examples:
        Gravity is a constant downward acceleration.
        Jumping applies an instant upward acceleration.

5. Damping

Why: Damping simulates friction or air resistance, preventing entities from moving forever.

    Gradually reduce velocity by a small percentage each frame.

Step-by-Step Standard Arithmetic Implementation

    Initialize Components:
        Store position (x, y), velocity (vx, vy), and acceleration (ax, ay) for each entity.
        Example: A falling entity starts with vx = 0, vy = 0, ay = GRAVITY.

    Apply Forces:
        For each entity:
            Add acceleration to velocity: vx += ax, vy += ay.
            Gravity acts as a downward acceleration: ay = GRAVITY.

    Update Position:
        Add velocity to position: x += vx, y += vy.

    Resolve Collisions:
        After updating position, check for collisions and adjust position/velocity.

    Apply Damping:
        Multiply velocity by a damping factor (e.g., 0.98) to simulate resistance: vx *= 0.98, vy *= 0.98.




Step-by-Step Physics with Fixed-Point Math

    Define Fixed-Point Components:
        Represent x, y, vx, vy, ax, and ay as int32_t in 16.16 format.

    Apply Forces:
        Add acceleration to velocity:
            Example: vx += ax, vy += ay.

    Update Position:
        Add velocity to position, maintaining fractional precision:
            Example: x += vx, y += vy.

    Integrate Delta Time:
        Scale forces, velocity, and position updates by dt:
            Example: vx += (ax * dt) >> 16.

    Collision Handling:
        Convert fixed-point positions to integers for collision checks:
            Example: intX = x >> 16.

    Render with Precision:
        Convert fixed-point positions to integers for rendering.

Incremental Implementation Plan

    Start with Integer Physics:
        Implement position, velocity, acceleration, and gravity using integers.
        Test basic movement and collisions.

    Introduce Fixed-Point for Precision:
        Replace position, velocity, and acceleration with fixed-point math.
        Verify smooth movement and small-value forces (e.g., low-gravity jumps).

    Add Delta Time Scaling:
        Introduce delta time (dt) to scale physics calculations.
        Ensure consistent behavior regardless of frame rate.

    Test and Optimize:
        Test scenarios requiring high precision (e.g., slow-moving objects).
        Optimize fixed-point operations (e.g., precomputed values).

Summary of Steps
1. Basics with Standard Arithmetic:

    Implement position, velocity, and acceleration updates using integers.
    Simulate gravity, movement, and basic collisions.

2. Transition to Fixed-Point Math:

    Use fixed-point arithmetic for smoother, more precise motion.

3. Introduce Delta Time:

    Scale physics by frame time to ensure consistent behavior.

4. Optimize and Expand:

    Add friction, bouncing, and other forces.
    Use fixed-point for all time-sensitive physics calculations.
